# cyclic-disc-damage
Computational Model of Spinal Disc Degeneration (created by Vikram Subramani &amp; Shruti Motiwale)

The matlab code folder contains the Main.m file, which needs to be run in MATLAB.

Depending on which loading case you want to run, copy the appropriate .mat file from the matlab data folder into the matlab code folder. 

On Line 12 of Main.m, set the number of years you want to run the damage model for. (Default: 30)

On Line 13 and Line 20 of Main.m, change the name of the loading input data to any of the available data in the matlab data folder.

On Line 14 of Main.m, set the number of steps/cycles taken in a day for the chosen loading condition. (Default: 22800)

The damage plot is automatically generated by the Main.m function in MATLAB.



In order to run the damage model individually for each element of the disc annulus in a finite element model, the MATLAB code in Main.m from line 18 to line 66 needs to be run iteratively, for all the elements in the disc annulus of the finite element model. This will record the damage evolution history for all the elements of the disc annulus, in a 2-D array.    

The LS-DYNA input keyword (.k) files for running the validation simulations on the cervical spine finite element model, under flexion/extension, axial rotation and lateral bending have been made available in the LSDYNA_input_files folder. Also, the LS-DYNA input keyword file for simulating one gait cycle of walking with an advanced combat helmet, on the C2-C3 cervical spine segment is provided here.
